Beef up VSTHRD003 documentation (#1283)
microsoft/vs-threading: doc/analyzers/VSTHRD003.md

}
```

> More advanced examples are further down in this document, below the solution section for the simpler examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More [advanced examples](#advanced-cases) are further down in this document.
```

    }
}
```

## Advanced cases

In the next example, a `TaskCompletionSource<T>` is used as a black-box for unblocking functionality.

> It too, represents awaiting a foreign task:

Reviewer 2: nit: I'd remove the comma between the subject and the verb

```cs
class SomeClass
{
    TaskCompletionSource<bool> tcs = new();

    public async Task MyMethodAsync()
    {
        await this.tcs.Task; /* This analyzer will report warning on this line. */
        /* do more stuff */
    }

    void UnlockProgress()
    {
        this.tcs.TrySetResult(true);
    }
}
```

> The problem with the above code is that `MyMethodAsync()` waits for unknown work before making progress.

Reviewer 2: I'd add a reference to the definition of what 'unknown' means

    {
        await someClass.MyMethodAsync();
    });
}
```

If `SomeCaller()` runs on the main thread, then it will effectively block the main thread while waiting for `this.tcs.Task` from `SomeClass` to complete.
Now suppose that another thread comes along and wants to do some work before calling `UnlockProgress()`:

```cs
async Task KeyMasterAsync()
{
    await joinableTaskFactory.SwitchToMainThreadAsync();
    // do some work
    // Unblock others
    someClass.UnlockProgress();
}
```

We have a deadlock, because `SomeCaller()` is blocking the main thread while waiting for `UnlockProgress()` to be called, but `UnlockProgress()` will not be called until `KeyMasterAsync` can reach the main thread.

Fixing this fundamentally means that `SomeCaller` will need to *join* whatever work may be needed to ultimately call `UnlockProgress`. But for `SomeCaller`, that work is unknown, since it's at least partially inside another class.
`TaskCompletionSource<T>` is fundamentally a blackbox and the most difficult thing to use correctly while avoiding deadlocks.
If you can instead use `JoinableTaskFactory.RunAsync` to execute your code as given in the solution above, that is ideal.

> Assuming you must keep using `TaskCompletionSource<T>` though, here's how it can be done as safely as possible.

Reviewer 3: Would it be worth offering other options here? For one-time work, AsyncLazy with JTF integraton could be a better alternative for example.

> Joining a set of unknown work is best done with the `JoinableTaskCollection` class.

Reviewer 4: Does the creation of `jtc` have any thread affinity to the object creation? How does it determine the `MainThread` in this case?

        using (this.jtc.Join())
        {
            await this.tcs.Task; /* This analyzer will report warning on this line. */
        }

        /* do more stuff */
    }

    void UnlockProgress()
    {
        this.tcs.TrySetResult(true);
    }

    async Task KeyMasterAsync()
    {
        // As this method must complete to signal the TaskCompletionSource,
        // all of its work must be done within the context of a JoinableTask
        // that belongs to the JoinableTaskCollection.
        // jtf.RunAsync will add the JoinableTask it creates to the jtc collection
        // because jtf was created with jtc as an argument in our constructor.
        await jtf.RunAsync(async delegate
        {
            // Because we're in the jtc collection, anyone waiting on MyMethodAsync
            // will automatically lend us use of the main thread if they have it
            // to avoid deadlocks.
            // It does NOT matter whether we use jtf or another JoinableTaskFactory instance
            // at this point.
            await joinableTaskFactory.SwitchToMainThreadAsync();

            // do some work
            // Unblock others

>             someClass.UnlockProgress();

Reviewer 2: at this line, `someClass` is just `this`, since the method is part of `SomeClass`. In the sample above I thought `KeyMasterAsync` method was assumed to be part of another class (because again it used `someClass` instead of `this`.

Author: You're right. That wasn't consistent. I've made some corrections.

`TaskCompletionSource<T>` is fundamentally a blackbox and the most difficult thing to use correctly while avoiding deadlocks.

Preferred solutions involve replacing `TaskCompletionSource<T>` with another type that makes tracking the work involved automatic.
These include:

1. Use `JoinableTaskFactory.RunAsync` and store the resulting `JoinableTask` in a field to await later.
1. Use `AsyncLazy<T>` for one-time init work that should only start if required. Be sure to pass in a `JoinableTaskFactory` instance to its constructor.

Assuming you must keep using `TaskCompletionSource<T>` though, here's how it can be done as safely as possible.
Joining a set of unknown work is best done with the `JoinableTaskCollection` class.
It is the responsibility of `SomeClass` in the example above to work with this collection to avoid deadlocks, like this:

```cs
class SomeClass
{
    TaskCompletionSource<bool> tcs = new();
    JoinableTaskCollection jtc;
    JoinableTaskFactory jtf;

>     SomeClass()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public SomeClass(JoinableTaskContext joinableTaskContext)
```

Reviewer: I see below that you mention "Notice how the public API of the class does not need to expose any `JoinableTask`-related types.". It's not clear how this context gets here, nor the JTF below in `KeyMasterAsync`. Maybe that's fine.

Author: *How* `JoinableTaskContext` gets to the constructor is outside the scope of the sample, so I left it out. But I can see how it creates confusion. So I've added it to the constructor like you suggested, but the point is that the constructor is *not* public, as it may not need to be. Typically such a class as this is a 'service' rather than a data object, which is why it's tracking tasks long-term. And as a service, the ctor is typically _not_ public, and that's how I can say "see how the public API doesn't use JTF types?"

`KeyMasterAsync` just uses the `jtf` field. I'll add `this.` in front to make this more clear. Then the `joinableTaskFactory` variable that it just imagines up is, per the code comment above it, _any_ jtf it can get its hands on -- including the field. But I wanted to illustrate that it doesn't have to be the field.
